# Filter-bubble-effect-in-time-of-Russian-Operation-onnections-between-opposition-political-groups-i
Currently, news aggregators are often influenced by state policy. This phenomenon forces various publications to conduct their editorial policy in one way or another. Naturally, in this case, the demand among readers for something that lives outside of state policy increases.
If we turn to the modern world, we will see that social media can both change the face and completely control the economic, political and social life of our lives. If we turn to Inglehart, we can see how "political and economic goals, religious norms and family values transform, and these changes, in turn, affect the pace of economic growth, the strategic attitudes of political parties and the prospects for democratic institutions"
At one time, many people who are engaged in politics forget about such a tool of propaganda and influence on people's opinions as social networks. Different types of Internet communities, along with virtual assistants, put the output relevant to the user. In other words, search engines, social networks and many other Internet resources forget about objectivity and offer only what certain users want.
A vivid example for my research is the VK event feed, as it forms our perception of what can happen or has happened in our world. Turning to most search engines, you can stumble upon a link to a primitive explanation of this global problem. Based on it, there are certain algorithms that are hidden in the codes of social networks and search engines. However, they are used to achieve some economic goals (for example, targeted advertising for users). It is claimed that this carries some kind of "noble" purpose. However, there is a downside to these algorithms, users fall into such phenomena as the "echo chamber" effect and filter bubble.
The goal of our project is to identify the so-called filter bubble for a sample of 3 extremely positional news pages in relation to each other on the VK social network. The pages under study: VZGLYAD, DOXA, MK. We collected data on

subscribers of these publications and, based on the intersections, tried to identify certain features of the information received by subscribers of these news pages. To collect data and analyze it, we resorted to such tools as: Pepper ninja parser, Target Hunter parser, excel, gephi.
The result of our research is designed to identify a filter bubble for subscribers of the above news pages.
